Regarding machine translation

Please let me make this clear first.

** THERE IS NO JAPANESE THAT GOES UNCHECKED WITHOUT A NATIVE SPEAKER. **

There is a two pass system used in order to speed up the translation process.
It is very difficult to maintain quick translation with someone working for no pay.
These people have limited time and need to do other things. This system relieves a majority of translating work.
Furthermore, it results in faster translation times.

FIRST PASS (PASS 1) TRANSLATION

The first pass is machine translation and dictionary services.
A human, likely not Japanese-speaking, but proficient in English, creates a "translation outline".
This outline is very simple; Japanese on one line, the approximate English translation next to it.
This first pass is then prioritized with a translation accuracy score.
This score is on a scale of Low, Medium and High.
For instance, if a translation seems OK to the first-pass translator, it is marked as Low.
However, if the first-pass translator fails to understand something, it is marked as Medium or High.
When the first pass translation is complete, this Low level translations are typeset. This is not the final typeset.

SECOND PASS (PASS 2) TRANSLATION

The second pass is a check by a proficient Japanese translator.
Rather than taking the load of translating every single line, they can check the translations done by the first pass translator.
This saves quite a lot of time.
Once the second pass translator completes checking all of the translations, the edited translations will be typeset.

WHY 2-PASS?

1st pass "Low" priority translations are generally correct and are quick to check.

Data from Gakumon Ch. 4 shows MTL on the "Low" level was corrected a minimal amount of times.

1st pass "Medium" levels were generally correct, but sometimes had an alternative that may have been better.

1st pass "High" levels were usually completely rewritten.

It took a total of about 1 hour for the second pass translation.
This system worked pretty well.
A brunt of the monotonous work was done by the first-pass TL, giving the second-pass less work to do.


FINAL WORDS

Translators are humans, and Chroniton doesn't have a dollar to pay them. This system takes much of the load off of the translator.
Checking is faster than translating, and this system works.
Everything is checked quickly and accurately. Machine translation is NOT USED AS THE FINAL PRODUCT. It is used only as an aid.

TL;DR
First pass translation: MTL, dictionary, used to lighten the load for pass 2
The first pass translation "low" priority translations are typeset to save time- this is not final
Second pass translation: Native Japanese speaker checks the first pass translation in order of priority
The second pass translation's fixes are typeset- rechecked, then published
Result: translation time is cut down significantly, and a chapter can be churned out by two people in a few hours

POSTSCRIPT

Please let me know if you have problems with this or if it can be improved.
I absolutely don't like using MTL; but I want to do what I can to help an unpaid translator.
These translators are doing a great thing, and I only want to help them out. Please don't get me wrong.
I absolutely will NOT publish a manga with MTL only. That's against everything I want to do.
The only thing I want are quick and high quality translations.


Regarding Gakumon Chapter 5 and further


This is my fault for not getting this out on time. I was lazy and my second pass translator stopped emailing me.
I just gave up at that point and focused harder on my present paid occupation.
I feel guilty for doing one chapter when I said I'd do the next, so I'm trying my best to get the next one out now.
I'm very sorry. Please bookmark chroniton.org for further updates and perhaps a schedule.

